Jacl

SCCS: @(#) README.jacl 1.10 97/12/19 12:02:31
 
1. Introduction
---------------

Jacl (which stands for JAva Command Language) is a platform
independent scripting language for Java.  The feature set and
functionality of Jacl are structured to mirror the scripting language
Tcl/Tk version 8.0.  In addition to the write-once-run-anywhere
philosophy, Jacl provides it's user with two other key concepts.
First, Jacl enables users to write Tcl extensions entirely in Java.
Extension writers can use the classes supplied in tcl.lang.*, as well
as any other classes, to write portable extensions.  Second, Jacl
includes the Java Package, which provides a direct Tcl interface to
Java Objects.  For example, the Java Package contains a Tcl command,
java::info, that provides a Jacl user with information about the
public methods, fields, etc. of a given Java class or object.  The
Java Package the user to script Java.

2. Documentation
----------------

The best way to get started with Jacl is to look at the demos provided
in this release.  The "docs" directory contains additional
information.  See the "diffs.txt" file in this directory for a list of
Tcl features and the extent to which they are implemented in Jacl.
Also, look at the SunScript homepage for other useful information
about our project.

3. Requirements
---------------

The Jacl distribution requires the Java Development Kit 1.1 or
greater.  Please not that we have only tested Jacl on Solaris and
Windows NT.  In the future, we plan to support Jacl on all platforms
where JDK 1.1 is supported.

4. Installation
---------------

If you have a binary release of Jacl, follow the instructions in the
INSTALL.txt file, located in this directory.

If you have a source release of Jacl, and you are compiling under
UNIX, change to the "unix" subdirectory.  If you are compiling under
Windows, then change to the "win" directory.  Then, for installation
instructions, see the README file in that directory.

5. License Agreement
---------------------

See the file "license.terms" for information on usage and 
redistribution of this file, and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.

6. Contact Information
----------------------

SunScript home page:  http://sunscript.sun.com
Email: Ray.Johnson@eng.sun.com

7. Tcl newsgroup
----------------

There is a network news group "comp.lang.tcl" intended for the exchange
of information about Tcl, Tk, and related applications.  Feel free to use
the newsgroup both for general information questions and for bug reports.
We read the newsgroup and will attempt to fix bugs and problems reported
to it.

8. Support and bug fixes
------------------------

We're very interested in receiving bug reports and suggestions for
improvements.  We prefer that you send this information to the
comp.lang.tcl newsgroup rather than to any of us at Sun.  We'll see
anything on comp.lang.tcl, and in addition, someone else who reads
comp.lang.tcl may be able to offer a solution.  The normal turn-around
time for bugs is 3-6 weeks.

When reporting bugs, please provide a short Tcl script that we can use
to reproduce the bug.  Make sure that the script runs with bare-bones
Tcl and doesn't depend on any extensions or other programs,
particularly those that exist only at your site.  Also, please include
three additional pieces of information with the script:
    (a) How do we use the script to make the problem happen (e.g.
	what things do we click on, in what order)?
    (b) What happens when you do these things (presumably this is
        undesirable)?
    (c) What did you expect to happen instead?

9. Regular expressions
----------------------

The regular expression features of Tcl are now available in the
binary version of Jacl.  We actually used a commercial regular
expression package from ORO, Inc.  While this resulted in our ability
to give you regular expression features months ahead of schedule, it
unfortunantly means we can't offer the same features in the source
release of Jacl.  If you would like to use the ORO regular expression
package with Jacl but you must have a modifiable source base you will
need to work out a deal with Sun and ORO.

Please note that there are certain differences between how Tcl regular
expressions are supposed to work and how the ORO package works.  As a
result some scripts that rely on certain regular expression
constructs will not be portable between Jacl and the C version of
Tcl.  It is our plan to eventually do a full port of the Tcl regular
expression package for complete compatibility.

For more information about ORO, Inc. and the regular expression
package they produce please check out their home page:

	http://www.oroinc.com/

The Jacl & Tcl Blend team
-------------------------

Ray Johnson - Project Manager
Melissa Hirschl
Ioi Lam
Bryan Surles
Special thanks to Scott Stanton who implemented Tcl Blend.
